[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: Let's talk
about responsibility.
Who are you responsible to
when you're programming?
Well this is my answer,
this is who I think I am responsible
to when I'm writing code.
My number one responsibility
is to The People.
To the poor bastards who
have to use my software.
I want to work really well for them,
I don't want to frustrate them,
I don't want to confuse them,
I don't want to hurt them,
I don't want to lead them to ruin, I want
to give them the best experience possible,
I want to make their lives
better to the extent that I can.
We imagine in the software industry that
we're making the world a better place
despite all the obvious
evidence to the contrary,
we'd really want to believe that but
we should at least try to make it true for
the people who are using our
stuff as they're using it.
We should at least do that.
I've seen teams where they have contempt
for their users, they hate their users,
the user's always complaining, they
don't understand how to use their stuff,
they don't appreciate our genius,
they're stupid, they're awful people,
hate them, which I think is totally toxic,
that it's inexcusable.
We should never be thinking like that.
Everything that we do should
be in service to humanity.
Number two, The team.
I want to be writing the best code
that I can, the clearest, best,
well documented, easy to understand,
good code because
other people who I'm gonna be working
with are gonna have to take that code and
make it better and I don't want to
be setting them up for failure,
I don't want to be frustrating them, I
don't want to be making their lives worse,
I want to make their lives better,
I want good code for everybody and
I expect them to do the same so
programming can be
a solo activity but generally we're trying
to do stuff which is so complicated.
We're trying to do it so quickly.
We're working in teams almost all
the time and sometimes big teams.
And in large literary efforts, there's
this idea of writing with a single voice.
Like if you're writing an encyclopedia, or
if your a couple of authors writing a
book, or if you're writing a magazine, or
some other thing we've got lots of
writers working on the same project.
They're all trying to
write in the same voice.
And that doesn't interfere at
all with being able to express good
ideas and presenting it clearly.
And I think we need to be doing
that in writing software too, so
I want us to be writing
all in the same voice and
that voice is the smartest most
professional programmer who's ever lived.
I want everybody on the team to
be writing up to that level.
I don't want anybody dumbing it down
because they think they need to
express themselves by
leaving out the semicolons.
I want everybody to be
writing really well.
Then number three, Management.
If they ask for it and it makes sense,
okay we'll do that too.
Now some managers might be saying, woh,
what a minute, we're supposed to be in
charge here, shouldn't we be
number one and I don't think so.
I think number three is
the right place for them.
If you look at what a CEO does one of
their most important responsibilities
is to help the company look out.
There's a tendency in the company
especially as they get bigger
that everything is focused inside.
There's competition for resources and
attention and promotion and
all of that stuff, and
you tend to forget about the customer and
you can forget the and you tend to forget
about the marketplace and all these really
things that are actually much more
important than what's going on inside and
part of the CEO's role is to
remind the company of that and
you see CEO's always saying things like be
the customer and be customer focused and
all that stuff that's
what that's all about.
And that's very compatible with
what I'm what I'm saying and
saying number one, The People.
Then one of the biggest problems
that companies have is that their
code bases are awful, that they're full
of croft there with the call legacy it's
just awful stuff and that seriously
impairs the company's ability to compete.
That you can't make changes,
you can't extend, you can't grow
because the software is holding you
back because of it's poor quality.
The software becomes a liability
rather than an asset.
And I think we can change that if we're
writing high quality of software for
the team, that we allow the company
then to be much more competitive,
much more responsive,
much better to serve the market.
Suppose you're writing your own software,
your home and you're doing your own stuff,
what are your responsibilities then?
Number one still The People, assuming
that someone else is ever gonna have to
write your stuff you really should write
it well for them whoever they might be,
even if you don't know who they're gonna
be should still have somebody in mind when
you're writing this stuff.
And then number two The Team,
if you have any ambition of
this stuff getting good enough that
you might wanna open source it that
means your team is now potentially
every programmer in the world.
So make it good for them.
And then number three your management so
knock yourself out.
That brings us to the end.
I can't think of anything
else to tell you.
So, thank you all very much.
But before we go,
I've got one piece of advice.
This is really serious,
I hope you don't forget this.
This is, I'm really serious now.
Please, don't make bugs.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Speaker 2: We've
got a couple random questions from Chad.
I'm not sure if you want to
take any more questions but.
>> Douglas: Are they good?
>> Speaker 2: Well it's just kind
of opinions, opinions on Swift.
I don't have an opinion on Swift.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 3: How about your opinion
on typescript?
>> Douglas: On typescript, I see
typescript as a trap, it keeps you in
a classical model, you'll never figure out
functions if yours locked into typescript.